---
layout: page
title: Project
comments: true
permalink: /project/
---

* content
{:toc}

# My Projects
---

## Non-volatile Memory

* **Improving the Performance and Endurance of Encrypted Non-volatile Main Memory through Deduplicating Writes**
* Non-volatile memory (NVM) technologies are considered as promising candidates of the next-generation main memory. However, the non-volatility of NVMs leads to new security vulnerabilities. For example, it is not difficult to access sensitive data stored on stolen NVMs. Memory encryption can be employed to mitigate the security vulnerabilities, but it increases the number of bits written to NVMs due to the diffusion property and thereby aggravates the NVM wear-out induced by writes. To address these security and endurance challenges, this paper proposes DeWrite, a secure and deduplication-aware scheme to enhance the performance and endurance of encrypted NVMs based on a new in-line deduplication technique and the synergistic integrations of deduplication and encryption. Specifically, it performs low-latency in-line deduplication to exploit the abundant cache-line-level duplications leveraging the intrinsic read/write asymmetry of NVMs and light-weight hashing. It also opportunistically parallelizes the operations of deduplication and encryption and allows them to co-locate the metadata for high time and space efficiency. DeWrite was implemented on the gem5 with NVMain and evaluated using 20 applications from SPEC CPU2006 and PARSEC. Extensive experimental results demonstrate that DeWrite reduces 54% writes to encrypted NVMs, and speeds up memory writes and reads of encrypted NVMs by 4.2 times and 3.1 times, respectively. Meanwhile, DeWrite improves the system IPC by 82% and reduces 40% of energy consumption on average.

* **SecPM: a Secure and Persistent Memory System for Non-volatile Memory**
* In the non-volatile memory, ensuring the security and correctness of persistent data is fundamental. However, the security and persistence issues are usually studied independently in existing work. To achieve both data security and persistence, simply combining existing persistence schemes with memory encryption is inefficient due to crash inconsistency and significant performance degradation. To bridge the gap between security and persistence, this paper proposes SecPM, a Secure and Persistent Memory system, which consists of a counter cache write-through (CWT) scheme and a locality-aware counter write reduction (CWR) scheme. Specifically, SecPM leverages the CWT scheme to guarantee the crash consistency via ensuring both the data and its counter are durable before the data flush completes, and leverages the CWR scheme to improve the performance via exploiting the spatial locality of counter storage, log and data writes. Preliminary experimental results demonstrate that SecPM significantly reduces the number of write requests and improves the transaction throughput by using the CWR scheme.

* **Path Hashing: A Write-friendly Hashing Scheme for Non-volatile Memory Systems**
* Emerging non-volatile memory technologies (NVMs) have been considered as promising candidates for replacing DRAM or SRAM, due to their advantages of high density, high scalability, and requiring no refresh power, while suffering from write performance and limited endurance. The significant changes of low-level memory devices cause nontrivial challenges to high-level in-memory or in-cache data structure design due to overlooking the NVM device properties. In this paper, we study an important and common data structure, hash table, which is ubiquitous and widely used to construct the index and lookup table in main memory and caches. Based on the observations that existing hashing schemes cause many extra writes to NVMs, we propose a cost-efficient write-friendly hashing scheme, called path hashing, which can significantly reduce extra writes for NVMs. The basic idea of path hashing is to leverage a novel hash-collision resolution method, i.e., position sharing, which meets the needs of insertion and deletion requests without extra writes to NVMs. By further exploiting double-path hashing and path shortening techniques, path hashing delivers high performance of hash tables in terms of space utilization and request latency. We have implemented path hashing and used  a GEM5 full system simulator with NVMain to evaluate its performance in the context of NVMs. Extensive experimental results demonstrate that path hashing incurs no extra writes to NVMs, and has high space utilization as well as low request latency, compared with existing state-of-the-art hashing schemes. We have released the source code of path hashing for public use at [Github](https://github.com/Pfzuo/Path-Hashing).

## Data & Image Deduplication 

* **BEES: Bandwidth- and Energy- Efficient Image Sharing for Real-time Situation Awareness**
* In order to save human lives and reduce injury and property loss, Situation Awareness (SA) information is essential and important for rescue workers to perform the effective and timely disaster relief. The information is generally derived from the shared images via widely used smartphones. However, conventional smartphone-based image sharing schemes fail to efficiently meet the needs of SA applications due to two main reasons, i.e., real-time transmission requirement and application-level image redundancy, which is exacerbated by limited bandwidth and energy availability. In order to provide efficient image sharing in disasters, we propose a bandwidth- and energy- efficient image sharing system, called BEES. The salient feature behind BEES is to propose the concept of Approximate Image Sharing (AIS), which explores and exploits approximate feature extraction, redundancy detection, and image uploading to trade the slightly low quality of computation results in content-based redundancy elimination for higher bandwidth and energy efficiency. Nevertheless, the boundaries of the tradeoffs between the quality of computation results and efficiency are generally subjective and qualitative. We hence propose the energy-aware adaptive schemes in AIS to leverage the physical energy availability to objectively and quantitatively determine the tradeoffs between the quality of computation results and efficiency. Moreover, unlike existing work only for out-of-batch similar images, BEES further eliminates in-batch ones via a similarity-aware submodular maximization model. We have implemented the BEES prototype which is evaluated via three real-world image datasets. Extensive experimental results demonstrate the efficacy and efficiency of BEES. We have released the source code of BEES for public use at [Github](https://github.com/Pfzuo/BEES).

* **RRCS: Mitigating Traffic-based Side Channel Attacks in Bandwidth-efficient Cloud Storage**
* Data deduplication is able to effectively identify and eliminate redundant data and only maintain a single copy of files and chunks. Hence, it is widely used in distributed storage systems and cloud storage to save the users' network bandwidth for uploading files. However, the occurrence of deduplication can be easily identified by monitoring and analyzing network traffic, which leads to the risk of user privacy leakage. An attacker can carry out a very dangerous side channel attack, i.e., learn-the-remaining-information (LRI) attack, to reveal users' privacy information by exploiting the side channel of network traffic in deduplication. Existing work addresses the LRI attack at the cost of the high bandwidth consumption. In order to address this problem, we propose a simple yet effective scheme, called randomized redundant chunk scheme (RRCS), to significantly mitigate the risk of the LRI attack while maintaining the high bandwidth efficiency of deduplication. The idea behind RRCS is to add randomized redundant chunks to mix up the real deduplication states of files used for the LRI attack, which effectively obfuscates the view of the attacker, who attempts to exploit the side channel of network traffic for the LRI attack. Our security analysis shows that RRCS significantly mitigates the risk of the LRI attack. We have implemented the RRCS prototype and evaluated it by using three real-world datasets. Experimental results demonstrate RRCS significantly outperforms existing work in terms of bandwidth efficiency.




**-- Some projects are not posted here since their papers are being reviewed in double-blind conferences.**
